# Trading Guide

## Isolated Margin
The Qume testnet only supports isolated margin. Margin cannot be shared between positions (no "cross" margin support).

- The total liability for a given position is limited to the margin for that position
- Users can add or remove margin (change leverage) at any times

*Initial Margin* is the minimum margin required to enter a position. *Maintenance Margin* is the minimum margin required to keep the position open. **On the Qume testnet, both are fixed percentages of position size (they do not scale)**:

| Type | Formula
| --- | --- |
| Initial Margin | 1.00% |
| Maintenance Margin | 0.50% |

Note that the *effective* leverage for a position can be up to 200x.

## Selecting Leverage

For a given position, you can only select a single value for leverage. In other words, **leverage is position-specific, not order-specific.**

For the BTC/USD Perpetual market on the Qume testnet, select your global leverage in the "Position Leverage" component.

## Mark Price

The *Mark Price* is the price at which the derivative contract is currently valued at a given time. It is considered the "fair price" of the contract, and often varies from the current market price (this protects against price manipulation).

Mark Price is used to calculate P&L and trigger liquidations. To calculate the mark price, first calculate the *Impact Price:*

- The Impact Bid Price is the VWAP (volume-weighted average price) of a 1-BTC market sell order
- The Impact Ask Price is the VWAP of a 1-BTC market buy order

The Fair Price is a simple average of the Impact Bid and the Impact Ask prices:

- Fair Price = $\frac {\text{Impact Bid} + \text{Impact Ask}} {2}$

The Mark Price then is calculated by adding the 30-second EMA (exponential moving average) of the Fair Price minus the Qume BTC Index. This is recalculated every second:

- Mark Price = Qume Index + EMA[Fair Price - Qume Index]

**The Mark Price cannot be more than 0.5% greater than or less than the Qume BTC Index.**

## Forced liquidation

If the margin for a given position falls below the required *Maintenance Margin*, the Qume risk engine forces the user to exit that position in the market immediately. This is called *forced liquidation*.

**Forced liquidation occurs when the Liquidation Price is equal to the Mark Price. Orders generated by the liquidation engine cannot be cancelled or modified.**

## Calculating Profit and Loss

Unrealized P&L is the current profit (loss) of an open position. The *Mark Price* is used to calculate unrealized gains.

- Unrealized P&L   = (Mark Price - Avg. Entry Price) $\times$ (Position Size)


Realized P&L is the profit (loss) realized by closing a position.

- Realized P&L = (Exit Price - Entry Price) $\times$ (# Contracts Exited)

**(Note that the above calculation do not account for fees. There are no fees on the Qume testnet.)**
